one of the first experiments that a lot
of us are introduced to surface tension
is is actually floating a paperclip on
the surface with these sites and
demonstrations it's always mentioned
that you want to gently place these
these objects on the bass but we want to
also define as what does that meant what
is meant quantitatively by by gently the
research that I'm currently working on
we're interested in the interaction of
hydrophobic particles with water surface
if we introduced the hydrophobic B just
above the surface and we release it on
the surface as it impacts it deforms the
surface and even if the bead is heavier
than the surface won't necessarily
penetrate through but because of the
surface tension effect it can actually
rebound completely off the surface so
rather than being captured or just
sinking directly through the surface we
can have some some rebound phenomena
that occurs and if we drop the sphere
hard enough which we impact with a high
enough velocity it will actually
penetrate completely through the surface
and will ultimately sink to the bottom
so we're interested in this region where
the surface tension prevents us from
penetrating through the surface one of
the other things that people have become
interested in this type of work is what
are walking insects for instance water
walking insects they have hydrophobic
legs which prevent them from penetrating
through the or sinking through the
surface one of the observations recently
is how they leap they completely detach
and leap off the surface some
researchers have built biomimetic robots
that that travel on interfaces that
could be used for things like
environments monitoring and that sort of
thing the one thing we're trying to
extend more broadly beyond this
particular project is what's the kind of
framework we can understand these
dynamics interactions as well and so
we're starting with this this relatively
simple model system to build up our
understanding and our intuition before
moving to more complicated more
complicated systems air tables are a
porous plate where X eats up from
pressurized from underneath and Dukan
floats in objects on it typically thin
discs and a great museum toy and in this
case they were looking at textured
surfaces where you can arrange for these
floating objects to propel themselves in
a particular direction I just thought
this was a cute experiment and I was
going to try and explain a bit of it and
if you text the air table you find that
the flow along the grooves of the
texture drags the particle
along and he drags it away from the
Arrowhead on the other hand if this
floating body has the herringbone
textured surface on it then some
pressure forces win and they push it in
the direction of the arrow
so there's the thing that hooked me on
interest why does it go one way in one
case and the other way in the other case
the immediate explanation naive
explanations to say Newton's third law
reaction actually and that's not quite
right in fluid mechanics because there's
a rocket effect you can come to the
great conclusion that's the acceleration
sideways these equal to the acceleration
of gravity multiplied by the aspect
ratio of the height shift divided by the
links of the group simple as that except
multiplied by a number between half and
two-thirds it depends on some harder
mathematics calculation who cares about
that have you ever noticed that little
mist that happens when you tear an
orange peel is your is your prying to
peel off this little mist is generated
by oil reservoirs about a millimeter or
so in diameter that hold oil and when
those are broken or otherwise stressed
it will expel the fluid so we have the
spongy stuff that's compressing the
fluid underneath the zest and that
creates pressure in these little oil
gland reservoirs and when the oil
pressure exceeds the failure strength of
the zest fluid is ejected out fluid is
ejected out of these oil gland
reservoirs at about 10 meters per second
on average and the diameter of each one
of these Jets is about the diameter of a
human hair they're also very very
unstable they they break up within about
two millimeters of the orifice because
the the droplets in these sprays are so
small they evaporate very quickly an
animal masticating on a citrus fruit
it's going to release these little these
little Jets of citrus oil that are now
carried as odor on the wind to attract
others consumers to the to the ripe
fruit
[Music]